Welcome back guys.
So in this video I'm going to talk about tank control problem and actually I will cover this topic in
three different lecture.
The first lecture we are going to do is a mathematical modelling of the hang control system and we are
going to do the simulation by using some link in the next lecture.
We are going to add a control system which is proportional controller and I will show you how to do
this by using semi link and in later lecture when I talk about pure idea controller I will use this
system as an application.
We have here a simple tank.
This one here right of this thing is etch which is changing with time.
This thing has a capacitance C or area equals to a Q2 is being provided to this thing PI an input see
the V.
So we have a shuttle here and we are opening or closing the throttle was a speed CTV Dot.
There is a constant here K V which represents the relation between the speed of the throttle and the
flow rate.
So here we will have an equation Q2 flows inside this thing and the thing is being felt.
So h changes and Q one leaves this thing two is throttle with resistance R so it's a very simple problem.
Now let's see the mathematical equations we have here.
The first equation from here we have the constant K V Q two equals two K V Times seat of adult.
The second equation
Q2 minus Q one equals two.
Area of this tank.
Times H dot or the change of the thing kind.
Continue with the equation
sir the equation of the shuttle we have q 1 which enters the shuttle times the slope of the resistance
equals 2 height.
Three basic equations.
So we have the input here which is see the V and the output here is etch so sit Sylvie as an input is
multiplied by k v to produce Q2 and Q2 minus eight times each dot to produce Q1 Q1 is multiplied by
our to produce Etch Etch is differentiated to produce etch dot which is fitted back in order to have
Q1.
So let's see that on similar link as you can see I have created a new model and Samuel link from the
LEI period.
I will add from commonly used blocks scoop some and they'll let gain and from continuous I will add
derivative and from sources I will add ramp source
now back to the system
by looking at the equations we have CW dot as an input so I have choose ramp input which represents
the change of throttle angle with time CTV the times K V equals to Q2.
So I have an m file this m file contains a different values for the different system parameters K V
equals to 0 point or 1 meter cubed per second per it.
So 1 read makes metric cubed per second flows inside the system the Volt resistance R equals 2 0 point
to 5 second over M squared and we have the tank area equals two point eight metres squared.
Now back to our model this is the ramp input or CTV dot as multiplied by k v so double click here and
this is K C to produce Q2 Q2 is then subtracted from x times a.
So double click here plus and minus
and we have here in the signal a Times etch so I will copy another gain right click flip this one here
a and I would wear it
to produce Q1 Q1 is then multiplied by the stroke of the resistance to produce etch.
So this is another gain
double click.
This is r and r what is etch.
And it will be plotted using the scoop and I will take signals from etch flip this block the signal
will be differentiated to have etch not an etch dot times a to produce a Times etch dot which is in
subtracted from Q2 to produce Q1 Q1 times are to produce etch.
Now let's simulate this system.
I'll change this time to 5 and go back to my end file clerk run now as you can see I have different
values of the different parameters in the workspace so I can run my model without any errors now run
double click on the scoop to see the response
as you can see as a time increased the height of this tank is increased also.
So if they're five seconds we have a height of twelve millimeters
I can change a slope of the frame input in order to increase the change of the opening evolve angular
position was time.
So for example five apply and OK now run
as you can see the final height of the thing is increase to 60 millimeters.
That's all for this video.
Thank you guys for watching.
In the next video we're going to see how to control the system by using proportional controller.
So see you there.